Research scientist, Artificial Intelligence Research Institute
2021-09 2021-11
2021-09 2022-07
2022-06 present
1. the 1st place winning solution at the NetHack Challenge at the the 2021 NeurIPS competition track (team "Raph", a high-level algorithmic state machine controlling low-level RL sub-policy). Tasks: development of diagnostic and debug toolbox, optimization of the algorithmic backend of the solution, including data representation and path finding algorithms, writing and editing a report on the motivation and structure of the solution.
2. Interpretable manager-worker communications for goal-conditioned policies in hierarchical RL. Tasks: researching into adaptive computation in deep networks, skill discovery and hierarchical policy learning in RL, learnable messaging with discrete latent embeddings, intrinsic motivation mechanisms for exploration, planning via models or tree search. Implemented and tested of new architectures, including recurrent transformers (MiniHack, NetHack), vector-quantized VAEs for manager-worker communication (ATARI, Minigrid).
3. Collaboration on "Contrastive Learning for Event Sequences with Self-Supervision" (SIGMOD'22: ICMD). Tasks: improving the papers scientific standing, reinterpeting the experimental results and aligning the discussion with the tested hypothesis, and contributing to rebuttal process.
4. Research on applications of machine learning and RL for industrial Operations Research and general Combinatorial Optimization problems. Tasks: planning and leading research in a small team, interaction with business partners, evaluation of IL and DQN approaches to learning branching rules in SCIP/Ecole to allocation problem with composite cost structure and quota constraints, experimenting with neural route generation for CVRP on real realistic roadmap networks.


Data Science Research Lead, Sberbank AI Lab
2020-12 2021-09
Collaboration on "Project Achoo: a practical model and application for COVID-19 detection from recordings of breath, voice, and cough" paper on a pipeline for remote diagnostics of respiratory illnesses using audio recordings. Tasks: writing and editing the research paper, consulting the team on validation protocols, proposing experimental setups and better research questions. Proposed a bootstrap-based method for counterfactual evaluation of audio recognition, extensively reviewed ML approaches in medical applications and remote diagnostics based on respiratory sounds.


Machine Learning Research Engineer, Skoltech CDISE
2016-11 2017-05
2017-09 2017-11
2017-11 2017-12
2018-04 2018-07
2018-02 2018-06
2017-06 2017-10
2018-09 2018-12
2019-04 2019-09
2019-11 2020-06
2020-05 2020-09
2020-08 present
1. Early warning system in aerospace industry. Tasks: data mining and feature analysis in engines and their telemetry data, design and implementation of data processing pipeline on small scale AWS EC2 cluster, optimized algorithm for anticipatory binary signal mining (scikit-learn+cython).
2. Detection of anomalous road surface conditions in a spatially distributed dataset of micro-meteorological data. Tasks: theoretical extension of the support vector machine problem to a decentralized private-public dataset setup, implementation of this algorithm in CVXopt+python, reporting the findings with comprehensive comparison and analysis on toy problems.
3. Estimation of the effects of weekly US DoE reports on the intraday oil futures price. Tasks: implementation of an convex optimization problem for estimation of sparse event effects, application to real market and report data.
4. Feasibility research for medium term oil price forecasting with advanced time series analysis and deep learning. Tasks: deciding on the specification of the news stream scope for a neural event embedding model, judicious collection of economic data  relevant to forecasting oil price time series, preparation of the final report, and presentation of findings.
5. Thesis research: "Inductive Matrix Completion with Feature Selection" (Journal of Computational Mathematics and Mathematical Physics, July 2021)
-- matrix completion algorithm with side-channel information and sparse group-lasso regularizer. Scope: design and implementation of a block descent algorithm with ADMM steps on smooth + group lasso composite objective, writing and editing the research paper detailing the algorithm, deriving sample complexity guarantees, and applying the method on biomedical benchmarks.
6. "Steganographic Generative Adversarial Networks" (ICMV 2019) -- GAN extra steganographic adversary. Tasks: development of the differentiable LSB stego-embedding layer, implementation of stego-security verification protocol, conducting proof-of-concept experiments with non-image GANs on generating 1d vector stego-containers.
7. Development of a matrix factorization library with temporal autoregressive regularization for demand and inventory forecasting. Tasks: design, validation and implementation of various forecasting approaches, presentation of findings at BigData Conference 2018.
8. Research on neural digital signal predistortion for 5G radio frequency transmitters.
Individual contributor: implementation of a custom torch-based large scale experimentation framework for rapid prototyping, fast verification and unified reporting, research and evaluation of alternative neural architectures, extensive experimentation with complex-valued networks for I/Q signal predistortion.
9. Thesis research into "Bayesian methods for sparsification of complex-valued neural networks" (ICML 2020). Core development of complex-valued neural networks extension to torch, with seamless integration onto existing experimental pipelines. Theoretical generalization of variational dropout and automatic relevance determination to complex-valued neural networks based on original research.
10. Research into generalization of the Deep Weight Prior beyond independent kernel-slice assumption for better few-shot learning. Tasks: planning and managing research, implementation of experimentation framework for experiments with TRIP mog prior, VAE implicit priors, and Varational Mixture of Posteriors, gradient estimators (IWAE, SGVB). Used custom numerically stable implementation of TRIP for high-dim tensors. Reports and presentations.
11. Thesis research into "Hessian-based Method for Precise Neural Network Pruning". Derivation and research of fast procedures for forward and backward greedy pruning based on the Optimal Brain Surgeon and related methods. Derivation of fast numerical procedures for matvec, inverse matvec and diagonals for Hessians in implicit ``sandwich'' form. Extensive research into the sub-optimality guarantees for approximate solutions of sparse leading eigenvector problem and its relation to the proposed procedure.


Researcher Intern, IITP RAS laboratory 10
2015-08 2016-09
1. "A statistical library for predictive maintenance and early warning systems with applications to aerospace industry". Tasks: implementation of novel data mining algorithms in python-numpy, analysis applied data analysis cases necessary to secure TRL5 certification, presentation of findings.
2. "A library for long term economic forecasting and simulation for efficient economic planning in coal mining industry". Tasks: development and testing of multivariate heteroskedastic time series macroeconomic model (in R), writing the report with description of the underlying econometrics.
3. "Online learning algorithms in portfolio composition problem for exchange traded funds". Tasks: research on online learning algorithms and online expert aggregation, implementation of a testbed for strategy evaluation on historical market data, reporting the experimental findings.
4. Master thesis research "Conformalized Multidimensional Linear Modelling and Anomaly Detection" (ICMLA 2016) -- a general distribution-free method for constructing confidence sets with valid statistical guarantees in application to Gaussian Process regression.


Business Analyst, GlowByte Consulting
2014-03 2015-08
2013-04 2014-02
1. Design and implementation of business logic and select database objects for a data warehousing solution during the migration of the database and accounting ledger of a top Russian bank to new corporate record management system.
2. Architecture, design and development of a statistical computations module for market simulations within a solution for monitoring the financial market by the Central Bank of Russia.


Junior Analyst, Institute for Financial Studies (IFS)
2010-01 2013-04
Responsibilities: contributing statistical estimation, design, and application of econometric models, implementation of forecasting and visualization tools (Eviews and R), interpretation and reporting of research results. Regular publication of short analytic comments on the current macroeconomic events, research and analysis of economic trends for informed executive decision making.
1. "The present and the future of Gazprom and strategy of Russia as a major international gas supplier" (english, manuscript published under title "Gazprom: An Energy Giant and its Challenges in Europe", ISBN-13 978-1137461094) Co-authored two chapters "Russian gas industry" and "Russian gas market"
2. "Transit of natural gas: the bargaining model" -- application of game theory to the issue of gas transit (Economics and Mathematical methods, October - December 2010)
3. Internal research: "Application of the extreme value theory to evaluation of market risk" estimation of VAR and CVAR with GARCH-type models. "Exploration of latent volatility regimes in oil price dynamics" application of Markov Switching autoregression. "Skill of luck: performance of open-ended mutual funds in Russia" -- four factor CAPM model with bootstrap simulation study on the alpha; "Shale gas in Pennsylvania (2013)" -- analysis of the recent events and trends; developing the methodology for "Index of Financial Stress (Russia)"
